# [Case Study 2 : How Can a Wellness Technology Company Play It Smart ?](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/verify/EE4BU9UEARKM?utm_source=link&utm_medium=certificate&utm_content=cert_image&utm_campaign=sharing_cta&utm_product=course)

### Bellabeat
Bellabeat is a high-tech company that manufactures health-focused smart products. Collecting data on activity, sleep, stress, and reproductive health has allowed Bellabeat to empower women with knowledge about their own health and habits.Since it was founded in 2013, Bellabeat has grown rapidly and quickly positioned itself as a tech-driven wellness company for women.
By 2016, Bellabeat had opened offices around the world and launched multiple products. Bellabeat products became available through a growing number of online retailers in addition to their own e-commerce channel on their website.

### Products
- **Bellabeat app:** The Bellabeat app provides users with health data related to their activity, sleep, stress,
menstrual cycle, and mindfulness habits.
- **Leaf:** Bellabeat’s classic wellness **tracker** can be worn as a bracelet, necklace, or clip. The Leaf tracker connects
to the Bellabeat app to track activity, sleep, and stress.
- **Time:** This wellness **watch** combines the timeless look of a classic timepiece with smart technology to track user activity, sleep, and stress. The Time watch connects to the Bellabeat app to provide you with insights into your daily wellness.
- **Spring:** This is a **water bottle** that tracks daily water intake using smart technology to ensure that you are appropriately hydrated throughout the day. The Spring bottle connects to the Bellabeat app to track your *hydration* levels.
- **Bellabeat membership:** Bellabeat also offers a **subscription-based membership** program for users. Membership gives users 24/7 access to fully personalized guidance on nutrition, activity, sleep, health and beauty, and mindfulness based on their lifestyle and goals.


### Goal: Analyze smart device usage data in order to gain insight into how people are already using their smart devices.
Using this information, give high-level recommendations for how these trends can inform Bellabeat marketing strategy.

### 1. Ask
Analyze smart device usage data in order to gain insight into how consumers use non-Bellabeat smart devices. 
- 1. What are some trends in smart device usage?
- 2. How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers?
- 3. How could these trends help influence Bellabeat marketing strategy?

### 2. Prepare
[FitBit Fitness Tracker Data](https://www.kaggle.com/arashnic/fitbit) (CC0: Public Domain): This Kaggle data set
contains personal fitness tracker from thirty fitbit users. Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of
personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. 
- 18 csv Files
- This dataset generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03/12/2016 - 05/12/2016.

#### 2.1 Limitations of Data Set:
- Data collected from year 2016. Users' daily activity, fitness and sleeping habits, diet and food consumption may have changed since then, hence data may not be timely or relevant.
- Sample size of 33 female FitBit users is not representative of the entire female population.
- As data is collected in a survey, hence unable to ascertain the integrity or accuracy of data.

#### 2.2 Is Data ROCCC?
A good data source is **ROCCC** which stands for **Reliable, Original, Comprehensive, Current,** and **Cited**.

- **Reliable -** *LOW* - Not reliable as it only has 33 respondents
- **Original -** *LOW* - Third party provider (Amazon Mechanical Turk)
- **Comprehensive** - *MED* - Parameters match most of Bellabeat's products' parameters
- **Current** - *LOW* - Data is more than 5 years old and is not relevant
- **Cited** - *LOW* - Data collected from third party, hence unknown

### 3. Process
#### 3.1 Selected Data
- daily_activity 
- hourly_calories
- sleep_day
- weight_log

### 3.2 Data Cleaning 
#### daily_activity
- In `daily_activity` we have total 15 different columns and 940 entries and 33 unique users.
- daily_activity dataframe doesn't contain any null values (missing values)
- Remove rows  that the `TotalSteps` is <= 100 (87 rows removed) or  it would distort the daily averages.
- `TotalDistance` and `TrackerDistance`are almost identical (838 rows are equal)
- Add columns that list day of week and total_hours of each user.

#### weight_log
- In `weight_log` we have total 8 different columns and 67 entries and 8 unique users.

#### hourly_calories
- In `hourly_calories` we have total 3 different columns and 22099 entries and 33 unique users.
- hourly_calories dataframe doesn't contain any null values (missing values)

#### sleep_day
- In `sleep_day` we have total 5 different columns and 413 entries and 24 unique users.
- sleep_day dataframe doesn't contain any null values (missing values)

